README.md, before:

# ![Meetings Icon](static/meetings_logo.jpg) MEETINGS 

Plans and proceedings of meetings conducted by Free Software Users' Group, Trivandrum are
preserved here. They can be accessed from links below.

## IMPORTANT: Call For Participation
It is planned to demo free software to public on Software Freedom Day (September 16th).
Details are available [here](proceedings/2017-08-27.md). We need volunteers to demo
selected software to the public and answer their queries. Please confirm your
participation at our chat channels.

## Next Event
```
Date   : September 16th, 2017 (Saturday)
Time   : 3:00 PM to 8:00 PM
Venue  : Manaveeyam Samskara Veedhi
Topics :
    1. Software Freedom Day Cedlebrations - Public Demonstration of Free Software
```

## Meeting Plan
Meetings are usually planned on every Sunday. However, they are liable to change. Our
meetings are of 4 types:
- General Body Sessions
- Learning Sessions
- Social Coding Sessions
- Public Outreach Activities

## Proceedings of Previous Meetings

### September 2017
- [Plansheet for 16th](plansheets/2017-09-16.md) [Software Freedom Day Demonstrations]

### August 2017
- [Meeting on 27th](proceedings/2017-08-27.md) [General Session]
- [Meeting on 20th](proceedings/2017-08-20.md) [Learning Session]
- [Meeting on 13th](proceedings/2017-08-13.md) [Learning Session]

## Credits
**Meetings Logo:** [Scott Maxell](https://thegoldguys.blogspot.in/).
Shared from [flickr.com](https://www.flickr.com/photos/lumaxart/2181400330/in/photostream/)
under [CC BY-SA 2.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/)

**Group Hosting:** [Free Software Community of India](http://fsci.org.in/)

Commit message:

Update README after September 16th

README.md, after:

# ![Meetings Icon](static/meetings_logo.jpg) MEETINGS 

Proceedings of meetings and plans of activities conducted by Free Software Users' Group,
Trivandrum are preserved here. They can be accessed from links below.

## Next Event
```
Date   : To be decided
Time   : To be decided
Venue  : To be decided
Topics :
    1. To be decided
```

## Meeting Plan
Meetings are usually planned on every Sunday. However, they are liable to change. Our
meetings are of 4 types:
- General Body Sessions
- Learning Sessions
- Social Coding Sessions
- Public Outreach Activities

## Proceedings of Previous Meetings

### September 2017
- [Plansheet for 16th](plansheets/2017-09-16.md) [Software Freedom Day Demonstrations]

### August 2017
- [Meeting on 27th](proceedings/2017-08-27.md) [General Session]
- [Meeting on 20th](proceedings/2017-08-20.md) [Learning Session]
- [Meeting on 13th](proceedings/2017-08-13.md) [Learning Session]

## Credits
**Meetings Logo:** [Scott Maxell](https://thegoldguys.blogspot.in/).
Shared from [flickr.com](https://www.flickr.com/photos/lumaxart/2181400330/in/photostream/)
under [CC BY-SA 2.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/)

**Group Hosting:** [Free Software Community of India](http://fsci.org.in/)
